---
layout: accio
nav: accio
title: Running experiments
---

The Accio command line interface is used to launch experiments.

* TOC
{:toc}

## Launching an experiment

The `accio run` command is used to launch experiments.

### Experiment execution

Experiments are ran locally, in the same process, using all available cores of your machine.
It means that you must be careful to not interrupt the process until it completed.
If you specify several files, they will be launched sequentially.

### Options for `accio run`

This command requires one or many arguments specifying paths to files containing experiment definitions.
These files must be JSON files formatted according to the [definition language](experiments.html).
You can specify files containing either a experiment definition or a workflow definition (which will be implicitly converted into an experiment).

`-workdir=/path/to/directory`

The working directory is the place where the reports generated by experiments will be stored.
By default, a random directory will be created in the current directory where Accio is being executed and advertised in the console output, but you can specify a specific directory.
Outputs of several experiments can be stored in the same directory, names of files storing reports are generated in such a way to avoid name clashes.

`-name="My experiment name"`

Overrides the experiment name at runtime, when launching it.
It will replace the value specified in the experiment definition.

`-tags="tag1 tag2"`

Overrides the experiment tags at runtime, when launching it.
Tags are space-separated, heading or trailing whitespaces are ignored.
Those tags will be added to those specified in the experiment definition.

`-notes="Some notes to remember why I ran this experiment"`

Overrides the experiment notes at runtime, when launching it.
It will replace the value specified in the experiment definition.

`-repeat=3`

Overrides the number of times each run will be executed.
It will replace the value specified in the experiment definition.

`-user="John Doe <john.doe@gmail.com>"`

Specifies the user who ran the experiment.
It can include an email address between chevrons.
If this option is not specified, the person who launched an experiment is automatically inferred by using the current shell login.

`-params="epsilon=0.002 distance=30.meters"`

Overrides some workflow parameters at runtime, when launching the experiment.
Parameters are space-separated.
They will take precedence over parameters defined inside a workflow.