---
layout: accio
nav: docs
section: developpers
title: Code organization
---

This page contains more information for people willing to contribute to Accio.
It gives an overview of the code layout and pointers to help you getting ready into contributing to Accio.
A good place to start is reading [compilation instructions](compiling.html), to have an overview of languages and tools used.

## Repository layout

We describe briefly the role of each top-level directory.

  * `3rdparty/`: contains Pants definitions of third party libraries, with one sub-directory per language.
  * `bin/`: contains some Bash scripts.
  * `build-support/`: contains additional resources needed by Pants to work.
  * `docs/`: contains source code of these docs (but **not** the HTML of the compiled website).
  * `etc/`: contains configuration files, such as definitions of Docker images or Accio workflows/experiments.
  * `src/`: contains source code of Accio, with one sub-directory per language.
  * `test/`: contains tests of Accio, with one sub-directory per language.

## Common utilities

We had to write some utility code, which is not coupled to Accio but is somewhat generic.
All of this code is grouped under the `fr.cnrs.liris.common` package.
We describe in the next sections the major utility packages, though some other may exist.

### Package fr.cnrs.liris.common.reflect
It is a reflection API for Scala used to discover interfaces provided by case classes at runtime.
In contrary to Scala's own reflection API, which need type information to be specified through TypeTag's, the API we define here analyses the JVM bytecode generated by the Scala compiler to infer type information.
The main advantage we found to this approach is that we only need a class name to get such information.

### Package fr.cnrs.liris.common.flags
It is a command-line flags parsing library for Scala.
It consists essentially in a port of [Bazel's options library](https://github.com/bazelbuild/bazel/tree/master/src/main/java/com/google/devtools/common/options) in Scala, that uses case classes and our reflection API.

### Package fr.cnrs.liris.common.geo
It is our spatial library, containing everything we need to deal with locations in various forms (either as a latitude/longitude pair or projected), distances and GeoJSON.
Internally uses [Google's S2 library](https://github.com/google/s2-geometry-library-java) for computations whenever possible.

### Package fr.cnrs.liris.common.random
It contains utils to work with random values generation and sampling.
It is essentially a copy/paste of [Apache Spark's random library](https://github.com/apache/spark/tree/master/core/src/main/scala/org/apache/spark/util/random), that is otherwise not available as a standalone library.

## Accio core

We have split Accio code into a *core* library, and applications.
The core library contains no executable application but all of Accio generic code, that can be used later as a library by other modules and by applications.
Accio core is grouped under the `fr.cnrs.liris.accio.core` package, which contains three subpackages.

  * `api`: it is the only dependency that modules defining custom operators need to rely on.
  It is a very light package that only defines an interface to be implemented by operators and some data types.
  You can find more information about implementing custom operators in [the dedicated section](operator.html).
  * `framework`: it contains classes defining the Accio framework, including operators metadata discovery, workflows and experiments discovery, data structures for [Accio concepts](../basics/concepts.html) and associated factories.
  * `runtime`: it contains code needed to actually execute workflows in various environments.

## Command-line application

Source code for the command-line application can be found under the `fr.cnrs.liris.accio.cli` package.
It depends on Accio core for most of it features, and provides a small framework to easily add new commands to the application.

## Web interface

Source code for the web UI can be founder under the `fr.cnrs.liris.accio.viz` package.
There are both Scala code, providing a REST API for Accio, and Javascript code, providing the web interface.

On the server side, [Finatra](https://twitter.github.io/finatra/) is used to write the REST API.
Finatra is a Scala library released by Twitter used to build services.
We use it because it is well integrated with Scala and allows us to build REST APIs efficiently.
The server also serves the user interface as static files.

On the client side, we use [Javascript ES6](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/), transpiled thanks to Babel and [ReactJS](https://facebook.github.io/react/) to build user interfaces.

## Writing tests

A good practice is to write unit tests for your code.
Tests are written using [ScalaTest](http://www.scalatest.org), a testing framework designed for Scala.
We use the *FlatSpec* testing style, where all tests are described with sentences such as "An empty Graph should have size 0".
You can extend the `fr.cnrs.liris.testing.UnitSpec` class to get started quickly writing your own tests.

Keep in mind that all the code is tested at each push or pull request, so you want all the tests to be green at all time!
