---
layout: documentation
nav: docs
title: Output artifacts
---

When running an experiment, Accio generates a lot of information.
All this information is dumped in the directory specified by the `-workdir` argument, or a temporary one if none is specified.
Many experiments can share the same working directory without any problem.
We describe here the structure of this directory and of the files it contains.

## Metadata

At the root of the working directory, some files are created containing metadata about the experiments that just ran.
Files `experiment-*.json` contain details about the various experiments while files `run-*.json` contain details about the various runs of those experiments.
The file is named after the experiment/run identifier, which is guaranteed to be globally unique.
These files are updated in real-time as the execution of the experiment progresses.

Experiment metadata include a reminder of the workflow being executed, the list of run identifiers being part of this experiment and timing information.

Run metadata include the particular graph being executed, timing information and the output artifacts.

## Artifacts

Some operators produce more than just a scalar value and need to write text or binary content as part of their output.
This data is written under the `data/` directory.
It contains one subdirectory per node, being named after a run identifier and a node name.
For example, `data/7d207929962f18e3e201344f0b7a86ba2df96235-EventSource/` contains the outputs generated by a node named `EventSource` as part of run 7d207929962f18e3e201344f0b7a86ba2df96235.

Operators are then free to use this directory as they want to store their outputs.
A convention is to create one subdirectory per output port and store the actual data inside.